# scREAD

[scREAD](https://bmbls.bmi.osumc.edu/scread/) (A Single-Cell Rna-sEq database for Alzheimer’s Disease) is the first database dedicated to well organized all existing Human and Mouse AD scRNA-Seq data collected as of June 1st and provide all the pre-analysis results based on our pipeline. scREAD takes advantage of a curation effort aimed at providing comprehensive scRNA-Seq data analysis results based on all human and mouse Alzheimer’s disease studies published in the public domain. By manually curating AD single-cell/nucleus RNA-seq published papers in the public domain, 11 papers including 12 single-cell/nucleus RNA-seq datasets, diverse cell types, different gender information, different brain regions information, and different age information were recorded. The single-cell/nucleus RNA-seq datasets are systematically and manually collected from the scientific literature published in GEO and Synapse databases. The construction of healthy atlas for different species’ brain regions and ages, and all the pre-analysis results based on the healthy atlas can be used as a reference for AD researchers. At last, eight cell types of 391,051 cells in eight human datasets and eight cell types of 188,341 cells in four mouse datasets were collected and deposited in scREAD. scREAD provides a user-friendly interface for browsing, searching, and downloading pre-analysis results based on all the 12 single-cell/nucleus RNA-seq datasets coming from the 11 papers. Furthermore, the researchers can use scREAD pipeline into their dataset to identify cell types, cell-type-specific biomarkers, and cell-type-specific regulons that are most useful for Alzheimer’s disease studies, and achieve all the graphics and tables as shown in our database.
